[ADD] accounting/l10n_us: usa accounting (#9206)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/fiscal_localizations/united_states.rst

    Hourly wage.
  - :guilabel:`Schedule Pay`: defines how often the employee is paid, either :guilabel:`Annually`,
    :guilabel:`Semi-annually`, :guilabel:`Quarterly`, :guilabel:`Bi-monthly`, :guilabel:`Monthly`,
    :guilabel:`Semi-monthly`, :guilabel:`Bi-weekly`, :guilabel:`Weekly`, or :guilabel:`Daily`. In
    the US, Semi-monthly (24 payments a year) or bi-weekly (26 payments a year) are the most common.
  - :guilabel:`Wage, Yearly, and Monthly cost`: used to show the total cost of an employee. It is
    recommended to populate the :guilabel:`Yearly` wage first, as it auto-populates the other
    fields.
  - :guilabel:`Pre-tax benefits`: populate this section according to the employee's selections.
    Pre-tax benefits decrease the gross wage, which lowers the base amount that is taxed. These are
    displayed at the beginning of the payslip.
  - :guilabel:`Post-tax benefits`: these benefit are deductions made *after* taxes are calculated.
    These appear towards the end of the payslip before the net amount is displayed.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`Employees documentation <../../hr/employees/new_employee>`

.. _l10n_us/adp:

Export work entries to ADP
--------------------------

> Requirements

Reviewer: For future improvements:
Think it's worth it to further explain each code to differentiate them more for the reader (is it *one* ADP code or is it *three* or more than that?), as far as what each code is/means and where to find them in ADP. A screenshot or two would be useful here too, given how important these steps.

~~~~~~~~~~~~

In order to create a report that can be uploaded to ADP, there are some configurations that must be
done.

First, ensure the *United States - Payroll - Export to ADP* (`l10n_us_hr_payroll_adp`) module is
:ref:`installed <general/install>`.

> Then, the company **must** have an *ADP Code* entered for the company settings. To do so, navigate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, the company **must** have an *ADP Code* entered in the company settings. To do so, navigate
```

to :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Configuration --> Settings`. Enter the :guilabel:`ADP Code` in
the :guilabel:`US Localization` section.

Next, work entry types **must** have the correct ADP code listed in the *External Code* field for
each work entry type that is being referenced.

Lastly, every employee **must** have an *ADP Code* entered on their employee form. To do so,
navigate to :menuselection:`Employees app`, select an employee record, and open the :guilabel:`HR
Settings` tab. Enter the :guilabel:`ADP Code` in the :guilabel:`ADP Information` section.

The :guilabel:`ADP Code` code is how ADP identifies that particular employee, and is typically a
six-digit number.

.. seealso::
   - :ref:`payroll/new-work-entry`
   - :doc:`../../hr/employees/new_employee`

Export data
~~~~~~~~~~~

Once :doc:`work entries <../../hr/payroll/work_entries>` have been verified, the information can be

> exported into a CSV file, which can then be uploaded into ADP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
exported to a CSV file, which can then be uploaded into ADP.
```

To export the data, navigate to :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Reporting --> United States: ADP
Export`, then click :guilabel:`New`. Next, enter the :guilabel:`Start Date` and :guilabel:`End Date`
for the work entries using the calendar pop-over.

Then, enter a :guilabel:`Batch ID` in the corresponding field. The recommendation for this field is
to enter the date in a `YY-MM-DD` format, followed by any other characters to distinguish that
specific batch, such as a department name, or any other defining characteristics for the batch.

Enter a :guilabel:`Batch Description` in the corresponding field. This should be short and

> descriptive, but distinct from the :guilabel:`Batch Name`.

Reviewer: Screenshot would be helpful here too, to provide a visual model for people to reference.

Ensure the correct company populates the :guilabel:`Company` field. Change the selected company with
the drop-down menu, if needed.

Lastly, add the employee's work entry information to the list. Click :guilabel:`Add a line` and an
:guilabel:`Add: Employee` pop-up window loads. The list can be :doc:`filtered
<../../essentials/search>` to more easily find the employees to add to the list.

.. tip::

>    It is helpful to process the data export in multiple groups instead of in one large group
>    containing all employees. The most common ways to group employees is by department or by wage
>    type (hourly or salaried).

Reviewer: Context
```suggestion
   Process the data export in multiple groups instead of in one large group that contains all
   employees. This helps to meaningfully differentiate the batches and makes processing more
   tenable, overall. The most common ways to group employees is by department, or by wage type
   (hourly or salaried).
```

Select the employees to add to the list by ticking the box to the left of their name. Once all
desired employees have been selected, click the :guilabel:`Select` button in the lower-left corner,
and the employees appear in the list.

To create the CSV file, click the :guilabel:`Generate` button in the top-left corner.

.. _l10n_us/ach-electronic-transfers:

ACH - electronic transfers
==========================

Automated Clearing House (ACH) payments are a modern way to transfer funds electronically between
bank accounts, replacing traditional paper-based methods. |ACH| payments are commonly used for

> direct deposits, bill payments, and business transactions, offering convenience and
> cost-effectiveness. With their widespread adoption, |ACH| payments have become an integral part of
> managing finances securely and efficiently.

Reviewer: Don't need sales-y language
```suggestion
direct deposits, bill payments, and business transactions.
```

   - :doc:`Setting up Stripe for ACH payments (Odoo) <../payment_providers/stripe>`
   - `Stripe's ACH Direct Debit documentation <https://docs.stripe.com/payments/ach-debit>`_

.. _l10n_us/nacha:

Send payments: NACHA files
--------------------------

Odoo can generate a National Automated Clearing House Association (NACHA) compatible |ACH| file to
send to a company's bank. For each individual *Bank* journal that the company wishes to pay vendors
with, a |NACHA| configuration section needs to be filled out on the Odoo database.

Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

First, navigate to the :menuselection:`Accounting app --> Configuration --> Journals`. Open the
bank journal and click into the :guilabel:`Outgoing Payments` tab.

.. image:: united_states/us-l10n-nacha-settings.png
   :align: center
   :alt: NACHA (National Automated Clearing House Association) configuration settings on Odoo.

.. note::
   The following |NACHA| configuration information is normally provided by the company's financial
   institution once they have been approved to send payments via their account.

Under the section labeled, :guilabel:`NACHA configuration` are the fields required to generate a

> |NACHA| compatible |ACH| file to send to a company's bank. First, enter the *routing number* of the

Reviewer: Don't need the emphasis here (not Odoo product or field name)
```suggestion
|NACHA| compatible |ACH| file to send to a company's bank. First, enter the routing number of the
```

financial institution in the field labeled, :guilabel:`Immediate Destination`. This information is
widely available on the Internet and generally varies by bank location. This number is usually
provided during the initial account setup.

Next, enter the registered name of the financial institution in the field called,
:guilabel:`Destination`. This information will be provided by the bank or credit union.

Following the :guilabel:`Destination` field is the :guilabel:`Immediate Origin` field. Enter the

> 9-digit company ID (Employer Identification Number (EIN)) into this field. This information is

Reviewer: to cover cases where EIN isn't available (such as sole proprietorship with SSN) or TIN.

```suggestion
9-digit company ID or Employer Identification Number (EIN) into this field. This information is
```

provided by the financial institution.

> Next, the :guilabel:`Company Identification` number should be entered. This is a 10-digit number
> made up of the 9-digit company ID (Employer Identification Number (EIN)), with an additional number
> at the start of the sequence. This number is often a `1`. Check with the financial institution
> should this first number differ to verify that it is correct. This number is provided for |ACH|
> approved accounts.

Reviewer: Remove passive voice
```suggestion
Next, enter the :guilabel:`Company Identification` number, which is a 10-digit number made from
combining the 9-digit company ID or Employer Identification Number (EIN), along with an additional
number at the start of the sequence. This number is often a `1`. Check with the financial
institution should this first number differ to verify that it is correct, as this number is provided
for |ACH| approved accounts.
```

> The :guilabel:`Originating DFI Identification` number is next, this Depository Financial Institution
> (DFI) field contains an assigned 8-digit number. Consult the financial institution for this number.

Reviewer: Condense
```suggestion
Enter the :guilabel:`Originating DFI Identification` number next, which should contain an assigned
8-digit number from the financial institution.
```

.. important::

>    Enter the above numbers exactly as the company's financial institution (bank or credit union) has
>    provided them. Failing to do so, would be detrimental to the successful  |NACHA| configuration.

Reviewer: Wording
```suggestion
   Enter the numerical values in this section *exactly* as the company's financial institution
   (e.g. bank or credit union) has provided them, otherwise risk failing a successful |NACHA|
   configuration in Odoo.
```

.. image:: united_states/us-l10n-nacha-dropdown.png
   :align: center
   :alt: NACHA settings with the standard entry class code drop-down menu highlighted.

There are two options for the next field: :guilabel:`Standard Entry Class Code`. Select the
drop-down menu to the right of the field and pick either :guilabel:`Corporate Credit or Debit (CCD)`
or :guilabel:`Prearranged Payment and Deposit (PPD)`. Again, this information will be provided by
the financial institution. By default :guilabel:`Corporate Credit or Debit (CCD)` is selected.

Finally, the last option is for :guilabel:`Generated Balanced Files`. Tick the checkbox to the right
of the field to enable :guilabel:`Generated Balanced Files`. Consult the company's accountant or
financial advisor to make an informed decision for this field.

> Manually :icon:`fa-cloud-upload` :guilabel:`(cloud upload)` save the configuration or navigate away

Reviewer: Wording, to more clearly tie the result to the clickable action
The prior version places the icon label next to the main action verb, which risks confusing readers.

```suggestion
Manually save the configuration by clicking the :icon:`fa-cloud-upload` :guilabel:`(cloud upload)` icon, or navigate away
```

Once all the payments to be included in the |NACHA| |ACH| file have been made, a batch payment needs
to be made from the :icon:`fa-cog` :guilabel:`Action` menu.

To create the batch payments, access the payments page, by navigating to :menuselection:`Accounting
--> Vendors --> Payments`. Select all the payments that should be included in the |NACHA| |ACH|
file, by ticking the checkboxes to the far-left of the rows.

.. image:: united_states/us-l10n-create-batch-payments.png
   :align: center
   :alt: On the payments screen, the action menu is highlighted with create a batch payment
         selected.

.. warning::
   All payments in the batch must share the same payment method.

Next, navigate to the batched payment (:menuselection:`Accounting --> Vendors --> Batch Payments`).
Click into the payment just created and then click into the :guilabel:`Exported File` tab. The
generated file is listed with the :guilabel:`Generation Date`. Click the :icon:`fa-download`
:guilabel:`(download)` button to download the file.

.. image:: united_states/us-l10n-batch-file.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The exported file tab highlighted in the batch payment with the download circled.

> If any adjustments need to be made, click the :guilabel:`Re-gererate Export File` button to recreate

Reviewer: typo
```suggestion
If any adjustments need to be made, click the :guilabel:`Re-generate Export File` button to recreate
```

   Verify the default package is in use by navigating to :menuselection:`Accounting App -->
   Settings` and under the :guilabel:`Fiscal Localization` section at the top, look for the `Generic
   Chart Template` selection to be listed next to the :guilabel:`Package` field label. This chart
   template includes the necessary settings for the US localization for the Odoo *Accounting* app.

   .. image:: united_states/us-l10n-generic-chart-template.png
      :align: center
      :alt: The Generic Chart Template comes pre-configured for the US localization.

Modules installation
--------------------

:ref:`Install <general/install>` the following modules to get all the features of the United States
localization:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 25 25 50

   * - Name
     - Technical name
     - Description
   * - :guilabel:`United States - Accounting`
     - `l10n_us`
     - Base accounting module for United States localization.
   * - :ref:`US - Accounting Reports <l10n_us/reports>`
     - `l10n_us_reports`
     - Adds United States accounting reports.
   * - :guilabel:`US Checks Layout`
     - `l10n_us_check_printing`

>      - Enables the printing of payments on pre-printed check paper. Supports the three most common

Author: Awesome thanks! Noted in 17.3 l10n_us IMP task: https://www.odoo.com/odoo/project.task/3979114

     * - :guilabel:`Income`
       - | :guilabel:`Foreign Exchange Gain`
         | :guilabel:`Cash Difference Gain`
         | :guilabel:`Cash Discount Gain`
     * - :guilabel:`Expenses`
       - | :guilabel:`Cash Discount Loss`
         | :guilabel:`Foreign Exchange Loss`
         | :guilabel:`Cash Difference Loss`
     * - :guilabel:`Current Year Earnings`
       - :guilabel:`Undistributed Profits/Losses`
     * - :guilabel:`Receivable`
       - :guilabel:`Account Receivable`
     * - :guilabel:`Payable`
       - :guilabel:`Account Payable`

.. seealso::
   - :doc:`../accounting/get_started/chart_of_accounts`
   - :doc:`../accounting/get_started/cheat_sheet`

View, edit, and sort accounts
-----------------------------

Access the *Chart of Accounts* dashboard in Odoo  by navigating to :menuselection:`Accounting app
--> Configuration --> Accounting: Chart of Accounts`.

From the :guilabel:`Chart of Accounts` dashboard, create new accounts by clicking the purple
:guilabel:`New` button in the top-left corner of the dashboard and :ref:`filling in the
corresponding form <chart-of-account/create>`. Search and sort through existing accounts by using

> specific :guilabel:`Filters` and :guilabel:`Group By` criteria, which are available in the mega menu

Author: I agree we should stick wit ha more common term, we have been using "drop-down menu" for the "search drop-down menu"

.. _l10n_us/batch-payment:

Create batch payment
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Now, record each payment in Odoo using the |NACHA| payment method.

.. seealso::
   :ref:`Register Payments in Odoo <payments/register>`

.. important::
   Be aware of the cut-off time for same-day payments. Either the file needs to have a future date
   associated with each payment or the file needs to be sent prior to the cut-off, if the dates
   included in it match today's date. Consult the financial institution for the exact cut-off time
   for their processing of same-day payments.

Once all the payments to be included in the |NACHA| |ACH| file have been made, a batch payment needs
to be made from the :icon:`fa-cog` :guilabel:`Action` menu.

To create the batch payments, access the payments page, by navigating to :menuselection:`Accounting
--> Vendors --> Payments`. Select all the payments that should be included in the |NACHA| |ACH|
file, by ticking the checkboxes to the far-left of the rows.

.. image:: united_states/us-l10n-create-batch-payments.png
   :align: center
   :alt: On the payments screen, the action menu is highlighted with create a batch payment
         selected.

.. warning::

>    All payments in the batch must share the same payment method.

Reviewer 2: As mentioned above, it's not enough for these to just be the same payment method, they must all be the NACHA payment method.
